Create notes from working group meeting (#6767)
dotnet/csharplang: meetings/working-groups/expressions-statements/ES-2022-11-30.md

# Bridging expressions and statements working group meeting - Nov 30, 2022

Our agenda was to review proposal issues and make an initial decision on whether or not we wanted to pursue the feature in the short term. We organized the discussion around feature areas and scenarios.

## Making things that are currently statements exist as expressions

- [#973](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/973) - **Declaration expressions**
  This would enable syntax like `(var x = 1).ToString()`.

>   > Resolution: We felt this is a feature will work on in the near term.

Reviewer: My recollection is that this was not one we decided for near term. What do other folks recall? Since this is not in your summary, is there a "not" missing?

Reviewer 2: Agreed Kathleen.

- [#1340](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/1340) - **Rethrow expressions**
  This would allow `throw` in expression contexts, where we currently allow `throw ex`.
  > We will work on this in the near term.
- [#867](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/867) - **Allow `break`, `return`, `continue` in an expression context**
  This would allow `break`, `return`, or `continue` where we allow `throw ex` expressions today.
  > We think `throw` was a special case. We think `return` may be a similar special case. There are identified scenarios where `??` and `null` checks might immediately return from a method. We're less sure about `break` and `continue`. We need to see scenarios where those would be compelling. Those may not be added now.

> - **Allow any statement to appear a an expression**

Author: Thanks. That should be "as":

```suggestion
- **Allow any statement to appear as an expression**
```

  There isn't an issue for this. We added it to the discussion as a logical extension. We don't see a compelling scenario for investing in this at this time.

## Modernizing older syntax

These centered on the different structures of the `switch` statement and `switch` expression.

There are two alternative for bringing the `switch` expression and statement syntax closer together:

- [#3038](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/3038) - **Revamping switch statements to reflect switch expression syntax**
  This would allow switch statements to use some of the syntax for switch expressions.
- [#2632](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/2632) - **Allow a switch expression as a statement expression**
  This can be thought of as the inverse of #3038. It would allow a switch expression to be a *statement-expression* (or a void returning statement).

> > We're interested in pursuing this. We're not sure if these are mutually exclusive, or which would be more useful.

Reviewer: Can we add "in the near term" to this for consistency?

## Allowing sequences of operations in place of a single expression

These are are very similar, each being a different syntax with potentially different things allowed inside the syntax, but they're all similar in concept.

- [#377](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/377) - This is most similar to let bindings in Lisp. Most restrictive of the proposals, it doesn't allow things like foreach
- [#3086](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/3086) - More general than #377, allows any statement before the final expression.
- [#3037](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/3037) - A more specific version of #3086, it only expands the syntax for switch expressions

> > Of these, the only one we're interested in pursuing now is #3037

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Of these, the only one we're interested in pursuing in the near term is #3037
```
